---
sidebar_position: 1
---

## Q: What is `NPM`?

A: It is a tool used for package management and the default package manager for Node projects. `NPM is installed when NodeJS` is installed on a machine. It comes with a command-line interface (CLI) used to interact with the online database of NPM. This database is called the NPM Registry, and it hosts public and private 'packages.' To add or update packages, we use the NPM CLI to interact with this database.

- `npm` alternative is `yarn`

## Q: what is npx?

A: Just like npm simillary we have npx for exicute the packages.
ex: For installing parcels we use npm for executing the parcel we use npx.
It is simply an NPM package runner. It allows developers to execute any Javascript Package available on the NPM registry without even installing it

## Q: dependency vs dev-dependency in package.json?

A: `Dependencies` should contain library and framework in which your app is built on, needs to function effectively. such as Vue, React, Angular, Express, JQuery and etc.
`DevDependencies` should contain modules/packages a developer needs during development.
such as, `parcel, webpack, vite, mocha`.
`These packages` are `necessary only while you are developing your project`, not necessary on production.
To save a dependency as a devDependency on installation we need to do,

```
npm install --save-dev
or
npm i -D packageName
```

instead of just,

```
npm install --save
```

## Q: What is Transetive dependency?

A: A package or module depends on another package or module.
A parcel is a type of package that requires Babel, another package, to run properly. This is called Transitive dependency.
When using Babel, it's important to keep in mind that it has a transitive dependency on another package.

## Q: package.json vs package-lock.json?

#### package.json

A:
when we initialize our project with "npm init" it creates a package.json file which has a brief description of our project like

- Project Metadata: It typically includes metadata about the project, such as its name, version, description, author, and license.

- dependencies: This section contains the packages (or modules) that the project depends on, along with their specific versions.

- devDependencies: It contain the packages that the project requires in the development process. let's take Parcel ( bundler ) as used to bundle our project it only needs in development, not in production.

- Scripts: The scripts object allows you to define custom scripts or commands that can be run using npm. For running parcel we do `npx parcel index.html`in the scripts object we set

```json
"scripts": { "start": "parcel index.html"}
```

now we only do `npm start ` to start our application.

```json
// package.json
{
  "name": "2.igniting-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "igniting our app",
  "scripts": {
    "start": "parcel index.html",
    "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC",
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.2.0",
    "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "parcel": "^2.9.3",
    "process": "^0.11.10"
  }
}
```

#### package-lock.json

package-lock.json is a file that is automatically generated by npm when a package is installed. It records the exact version of every installed dependency, including its sub-dependencies and their versions.
It is automatically generated by npm and updated whenever you install or update packages.

## What is node_modules folder?

A: Whenever we install packages using the package manager it stores the packages in the node_modules folder.

## What is Parcel Bundler? Why do we need it? Explain about Parcel?

A: Parcel is a type of web application bundler used for devlopment & production build. which gives our application to super power having some functionalities and features.

- dev build
- production build

### Parcel Features:

- HMR (Hot Module Replacement) - parcel keeps track of file changes via file watcher algorithm and renders the changes in the files
- File watcher algorithm - made with C++
- Minification
- Cleaning our code
- DEV and production Build
- Super fast building algorithm
- Image optimization
- Caching while development
- Compresses
- Compatible with older version of browser
- HTTPS in dev
- Port Number
- Consistent hashing algorithm
- Zero Configuration
- Automatic code splitting
- tree shaking

### Tree shaking
A: Tree shaking is process of removing the unwanted code that we do not use while developing the application. In computing, tree shaking is a dead code elimination technique that is applied when optimizing code.
It removes the not used functions and variables in our code. which reduce the applicationo size.


## Q: What is .parcel-cache?

A: .parcel-cache is used by parcel(bundler) to reduce the building time. It stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyze everything from scratch. It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode.
